key = 5, 18
shortening the war
in february nineteen fourty two the germans hit back by introducing a new fourth wheel (multiplying the number of settings another twenty six times) into their naval enigma machines. the resulting 'net' was known to the germans as 'triton' and to the british as 'shark'. for almost a year bletchley could make no inroads into shark, and allied losses in the atlantic again increased alarmingly.

in december nineteen fourty two shark was broken, but german innovations meant that the allies had to wait until august the following year before naval enigma was regularly read again. by then the americans were active combatants, providing much-needed computer power to bletchley.

by d-day in june nineteen fourty four ultra was no longer so important. but still no one wanted the germans to sense that enigma was being read. when, a few days before the normandy landings, an american task force captured a german u-boat with its enigma keys, admiral ernest king, us commander in chief of the atlantic fleet, threatened to court-martial the officer in charge for endangering 'operation overlord', as the plan for the d-day landings was known.

by how much did ultra intelligence, gained from reading enigma ciphers, shorten the war? harry hinsley, based at bletchley during the war, suggests it was a significant asset. if it did not keep rommel out of egypt in nineteen fourty one, it certainly did so the following year, by preventing him exploiting his victory at gazala.

as general alexander put it, 'the knowledge not only of the enemy's precise strength and disposition, but also how, when and where he intends to carry out his operations brought a new dimension to the prosecution of the war.'

the loss of egypt in nineteen fourty two would have set back the re-conquest of north africa and upset the timetable for the invasion of france. according to hinsley, overlord would probably have been deferred until nineteen fourty six.

but by then the germans might have hit back with v-weapons and worse. enigma successes always needed complementing with other intelligence material, but the fact that the allies kept enigma secret until nineteen seventy four shows how much it meant to them.
