permutation: [7, 1, 8, 2, 6, 0, 5, 4, 3]
manchester city have been cautioned against the introduction of facial recognition technology, which a civil rights group says would risk "normalising a mass surveillance tool".
the reigning premier league champions are considering introducing technology allowing fans to get into the etihad stadium more quickly by showing their faces instead of tickets, according to the sunday times.
if someone is recognised as having bought a ticket, they would be ushered in by a green light, and if not they would be halted with a yellow one.
hannah couchman, the policy and campaigns officer at liberty, said: "this is a disturbing move by manchester city, subjecting football fans to an intrusive scan, much like taking a fingerprint, just so they can go to the saturday game."
"it's alarming that fans will be sharing deeply sensitive personal information with a private company that boasts about collecting and sharing data on each person that walks through the gate, and using this to deny people entry. manchester city should urgently reconsider their involvement in normalising a mass surveillance tool which can track and monitor us as we go about our everyday lives."
blink identity, a texas-based facial recognition company, says its technology can identify people walking at regular speed, so fans will not need to slow down to show a ticket or use a turnstile.
to opt in, supporters would need to register a selfie taken on their phone. blink identity says it is also possible to "collect usable and shareable data" on every person that walks through its facial scanning software.
the team behind blink identity have spent the last decade creating large-scale biometric identification systems in the middle east for the us department of defense, according to its website. last year live nation, the company that owns ticketmaster, announced investment in blink identity as part of plans to replace paper tickets with facial recognition.
a source at manchester city said reports of a pilot facial recognition scheme were premature and there was no such plan in place. they said the club would always be "open to exploring new and appropriate technologies and systems to improve fans' experience at the stadi