pokemon go  is a free-to-play, location-based augmented reality game developed by niantic for ios and android devices. it was initially released in selected countries 
in july two zero one six. in the game, players use a mobile device's gps capability to locate, capture, battle, and train virtual creatures, called pokemon, who appear 
on the screen as if they were in the same real world location as the player. the game supports in-app purchases for additional in-game items.

pokemon go was released to mixed reviews, with critics praising the game's concept and the incentive to be more active in the real world, while criticizing frequent technical 
issues apparent at launch. despite such reviews, it quickly became a global phenomenon and was one of the most used mobile apps, having been downloaded by more than one hundred 
and thirty million people worldwide. it was also credited with helping local business grow. however, it has attracted controversy for contributing to accidents and becoming a 
public nuisance at some locations. multiple governments expressed concerns over the game's security, with legislation regarding it being passed in some countries as a result.

the concept for the game was conceived in twenty fourteen by satoru iwata of nintendo and tsunekazu ishihara of the pokemon company as an april fools' day collaboration with google, 
called pokemon challenge. ishihara was a fan of developer niantic's previous transreality game, ingress, and saw the game's concept as a perfect match for the pokemon series. niantic 
used the crowdsourced data from ingress to populate the locations for pokestops and gyms within pokemon go.in twenty fifteen, ishihara dedicated his speech at the game's announcement 
on september ten to iwata, who had died two months earlier. the game's soundtrack was written by longtime pokemon series composer, junichi masuda, who also assisted with some of the game's 
design. among the game's visual designers was dennis hwang, who previously worked at google and created the logo of gmail.

on march fourth, twenty sixteen, niantic announced a japan-exclusive beta test would begin later that month, allowing players to assist in refining the game before its full release. 
the beta test was later expanded to other countries. on april seven, it was announced that the beta would expand to australia and new zealand. then, on may sixteen, the signups for 
the field test were opened to the united states. the test came to an end on june thirty.

at comic con two zero sixteen, john hanke, founder of niantic, revealed the appearances of the three team leaders: candela (team valor), blanche (team mystic), and spark (team instinct).
hanke conveyed that approximately ten percent of the ideas for the game were implemented. future updates, including the much-anticipated addition of trading, more pokemon, implementation of 
pokemon centers at pokestops, a patch for the "three step glitch', and easier training, were also confirmed. he also stated that niantic would be continuing support for the game for "years to come".